I entered the world of science competitions quite a long time ago. My first competition was the [Mathematical Kangaroo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_Kangaroo), in 2011, and the next year I ranked 7th in Portugal, at which point I noted I had both the will (mostly for the thrill and self-surpassing, not as a way to promote my ego or by pure competitivity) and the skill, although I had not yet fully realized how much I enjoyed it and the scale of these competitions, even in my small country.

From there, I started participating in the lower categories of the Portuguese Mathematical Olympiads (OPM), and almost unexplainably got to the national finals in 2013. However, it was only in 2015 (last year of middle school) that I really stepped up the level; in that year, I got to the national finals of the Portuguese Mathematical Olympiad, and with my brother and a colleague we got gold in the finals of the Physics Olympiad (OdF).

Then came highschool, my best period in terms of competitions: in 2017 I led a team of three students selected among the best in Portugal in the European Union Science Olympiad, in Copenhagen, where we got silver. And finally, by far the best school year: 2018/19, when I was selected to attend both the International Physics Olympiad (in Lisbon) and the International Olympiad in Informatics (in Japan). It was a dream come true, as I had for years watched older colleagues going to the Internationals, these almost-intangible beings, the best of the best, so far superior that I thought my changes of getting to that level were null. And through hard work, there I was: I had become one of them (without losing too much of my sanity), to honour my country.

This was about the time I found out about competitive programming, and that I figured out I wanted to study Informatics (not only because of competitive programming).